Project management

Start with your project in a single folder. Everything that relates to your
project will be inside this folder. This will make your project portable and
cohesive.


Select a logical system of sub folders, looking at what is standard in the
field. There is no one-size-fits-all, but this can be a good structure for a
research project. Having folders separate for data for documentation and four
figures. Make sure you structure your sub folders in a logical way. Don’t be
afraid to make sub sub and sub sub sub folders, so long it is as it is logical.
Especially when you were working with code or tools that generate content
automatically, it is important to separate the content from content that you
yourself are writing. It is also important to separate read only content from
the rest. Raw data should never be meddled with.

The base of your folder system, the main folder at the highest level of your
project, is called the “root”. This is an important reference point of your
project: it contains the main files that are required to understand the project,
as well as the main sub folders.

Especially on higher levels, it’s recommended that each folder contains a README
file, that describes the content of that folder. There are certain things you
can put in that README file. A good thing to start Waze with is always to ask
yourself what if in one year time you see this folder again what information do
you need to understand it fully. With almost everything we are going to show
you, you yourself are the most likely want to benefit from a good project
structure, and good documentation. Keep this in mind. Some more tips for content
in the read me is, explanation of any abbreviations used, dates, expected files,
any references that are necessary.

File names themselves can be important documentation. We have a long past the
time that file names needs to be short, although it is although there is
obviously a limit. File names will be important when you want to sort your
files. Therefore, making sure that file names start with The most general
descriptor of the file content, can be relevant. It is furthermore advised never
to use spaces or start your file name with a number, as this can interfere with
your files being processed by certain programs. When you are including a date in
your file, and you probably should, start with the year then the month and then
the day. This will make sure that when sorting your files you will sort them
from early to late. It also prevents any confusion with date notation in
different parts of the world.

