# Publishing & archiving

## 1. Choose a license

Open Science is all too often equated with accessibility, but this is a mistake.
A vital part of open science is not about access, but rather about use. For
others to be able to use your project, you will have to give them permission you
do this. You do that with a license. Without a license, your project is
copyrighted, and others will not be able to build on it. But even if you want to
give your project an open license, there are hundreds, even thousands of
licenses out there, and it can be difficult to choose!

So, here is a very rough guide:

If you want an open license, and you have a creative project that is not
functional (so, it is not software or code), you can choose one of the Creative
Commons licenses. Within these licenses you can opt for specific flavors: do you
want to allow commercial use of your project? Do you want others to reshape your
project and make a derivative, or is this not allowed? Do you want derivatives
to be shared with the same Creative Commons license? Or simply: when you use
this project, you must attribute me.

If you have a software project, you can choose between a license that is
'copyleft', and a more permissive license. Copyleft is a term coined because it
is the opposite of copyright: it not only allows access and use of your project,
but it requires anyone building on the project to share their product with the
same license, in a pay-it-forward kind of system.

Permissive licenses are the least restrictive about what a user should or should
not do with your project: the MIT license, the BSD license, and Apache are
examples of this.

So, that is what open license are. Here is what Open licenses are NOT:

They do not mean that you will be forgotten. Far from it: your work will be
shared, and in sharing it, you will be attributed. When your work is shared, so
is your name and recognition.

Open licenses also do not forbid you from monetizing your project. If you want
to make money off of your project, you can; there are many ways in which that is
possible even if you do not 'sell rights' to the project. An Open License in
principle does not stand in the way of commercial gain.

## 2. Maintain your living project on GitHub

Full disclosure: GitHub, and similar websites like GitLab and BitBucket, shine
when used in combination with version control software such as Git. But GitHub
can be used without Git, and you can benefit from the infrastructure within
GitHub that facilitates collaboration and sharing. We recommend it!

A project on GitHub is called a repository, or a 'repo' for short. In a GitHub
repo, both invited and uninvited guests can engage with your project, and
collaborate: they can discuss ideas or make suggestions in issues, they can even
copy the project to their own profile, where they are boss, make requisite
changes, and propose to you that you integrate these changes.

If you do not want anyone to be able to see your project yet, GitHub allows
private repos, where you can collaborate only with those you explicitly invite.
But, for what it is worth, we recommend sharing early. It invites collaboration,
and it sets the stage for a project to be shared completely and easily when it
is done. A project that is shared throughout its lifecycle will be cleaner, less
likely to contain clutter, and subject to a few more critical eyes that may just
catch a gleeming error in your methods before you call Nature!

GitHubs infrastructure is much broader than a discussion platform: primarily, it
allows you to show your work. GitHub showcases README files, making it easier
for anyone to get started in understanding your work. Even if you do not use
version control software, GitHub will do it for you, and track your history.
Finally, a new release of your projects takes nothing more than a few button
clicks, and GitHub has a superhighway to archiving your project on Zenodo, where
you can store your project for posterity.

## 3. Archive the project for posterity on Zenodo

Archiving is more than sharing. It is a way to ensure that there is a permanent
place for your project, AND to ensure it can always be found there. Zenodo is an
archive -- that means that everything that ends up in Zenodo will stay there
forever. Fortunately, Zenodo has a sandbox environment where you can play with
it without knowing your dummy projects will be archived for good.

A GitHub repo can be connected to Zenodo, which makes archiving it a breeze:
releasing the project in GitHub will trigger the archive, and an updated version
will end up as an updated version on your archived project. Zenodo issues a
Digital Object Identifier, a DOI, which will persistently link to your project,
even if the Zenodo archive will change locations on the web. In this example
project, you can also see the license, and a version history: it is immediately
clear if a project has been updated, but older versions remain accessible.